# STAT-464_564-Project
## Abstract
The immune system of the body is attacked by the virus known as the Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). There is no known cure for this condition, and people who contract HIV will live with the condition for the rest of their lives. However, HIV can be managed with the right medical attention. Effective HIV treatment enables people with HIV to enjoy long, healthy lives and safeguard their intimate partners. 

In this study, a machine learning-based strategy for identifying HIV medication resistance is presented. We compare logistic regression to genetic algorithms and elastic net regularization. Three experiments are presented to illustrate the comparability between these strategies. In the first experiment, we choose genetic algorithm parameters from a genetic perspective, but in the second experiment, logistic regression is utilised. In the third experiment, a novel strategy for training the elastic net regularisation model is proposed. Our model was evaluated to determine the ideal model for our response and to determine whether the medications utilising the predictor were resistant or non-resistant based on Stanford team-collected patient data. Our proposed elastic net regularization model attained a classification accuracy of 90.57\% and a f1 score of 90.60\%. Our algorithm demonstrates that elastic net regularization approaches enhanced by the suggested notion can bring a highly accurate approach to the problem of HIV medication resistance.
 
 In here you can find and access to the R code used for this project.
 
 The project papr final is also available. Also, the Source code for reproducibility can be found in here. Due to the high volume of the data and the 50 times to be repeated, it may take a while to run completely on a different computer. 
